The keyboard used for this project is a repurposed Bluetooth Dome-switch computer keyboard. Inside the keyboard are two plastic sheets with electrical contacts. Between them is a spacer sheet to prevent constant electrical contact between the sheets, electrical contact at a specific row and column indicating a key press. Inside the keyboard are 12 output contacts corresponding to one sheet and 11 contacts corresponding to the other sheet. Since the keyboard was originally configured to be wireless, there are no external connections to the contacts. Wires were directly connected to the internal contacts of the keyboard sheets and led out to attach to an ESP32S2, which would output a value based on detected electrical connection within the keyboard.

First, one contact sheet was designated as containing the "row" contacts, while the other sheet was designated as "column" arbitrarily. All pins designated as row pins are driven high, while all of the column pins are driven low. Then the controller waits a period of 10 milliseconds before reading the output of all the columns to avoid noise from button bouncing.

Next, the rows are driven low, and the columns are driven high; then, the value of the row is read after a delay. The same process is repeated to read a value for the row pins. If a single key was pressed, a single bit in the row and column reading would be set.

The unique value for each key was then calculated by 12 * r + c, where r is the index of the bit set in the row reading and c is the index of the bit set in the column reading. This unique value was then mapped to an ASCII character value based on the identity of the key. The character is then sent to the computer using the chegewara/EspTinyUSB library.